1: Competitive Analysis

Introduction

We are choosing to do a Donut business for our final project, and these are the 3 competitors we will be analyzing: Dunkin Donuts, Krispy Kreme, and Donut World. 

Competitors Overview and Persuasion Techniques

Dunkin Donuts: https://www.dunkindonuts.com/en 
Reciprocity
Dunkin Donuts has a reward system that allows you to earn points based on your purchases. You can then use these points to get free items in your future purchases.
Liking
Dunkin Donuts has an “about us” section that allows people to gain a better understanding of the business. The information in the section includes when it was founded, its partners, and more ways to get involved such as applying for a job. 
Commitment
The reward system requires you to sign up for the program, which requires your email address and other information. By doing this the user is committed to using the Dunkin Donuts reward system and will keep them coming back for more rewards. 
Scarcity
Dunkin Donuts has limited time flavors and also advertises limited time deals. For example the first thing you read is about a 3$ deal on a sausage egg and cheese sandwich with a large coffee. Deals like these will certainly make people more inclined to eat at Dunkin. 



Krispy Kreme: https://www.krispykreme.com/ 
Reciprocity and Commitment
Krispy Kreme also has a rewards system which seems to be common among dining establishments these days. By implementing a reward system the company is able to cover two of the methods of persuasion at once. The company gives back to its customers when they make purchases while also making them commit by having them sign up for the program. 
Scarcity
Krispy Kreme has flavors catered for the fall season and are only available for a limited time. Fans of the fall menu will certainly be incentivized to go to Krispy Kreme before the fall menu is gone so this classifies as scarcity. 
Liking
Krispy Kreme also has an “about us” section. Again they go over their foundation and other relevant information. 

Donut World: https://donutworldsi.com/
Scarcity - As soon as you open the website it has a “You do not want to miss this” banner referring to their holiday-style donuts.
Reciprocity - On the very top of the page it has a small banner that says “ save $5 of $25 when ordering delivery”, which could attract customers to use their delivery system. 
